image added/fixed (#57)
asetalias/blog: content/post/Android_Root101.en.md

+++
title = "A Guide to Flashing Custom ROMs [Android]"

> slug = "csrom101"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug = "custom-rom-101"
```
better

> date = "2018-02-25T00:00:00"

Reviewer: 2018??

Reviewer 2: @rohanvtk It seems like you missed this bit.

> image = "img/rohanvtk/csrom.jpg"

Reviewer 2: Can you optimize your header image? 812 Kb ain't a lot, but considering the size of the repo is already at about 16 mb. Hence, we have to optimize what we can. You can also use URL's if you wish too.

description = "Sick and tired of the bloatware on your current OEM ROM. Head over and learn how to flash custom ROMs."
author = "RohanVTK"
tags = ['Smartphone', 'Customization','Android']
categories = ['Android']
+++

> **_(This blog starts off with a warning: Although the process is super easy and the chances of your phone getting bricked(useless) are negligible but, it's my responsibility to make you aware of it)_**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_This blog starts off with a warning: Although the process is super easy and the chances of your phone getting bricked(useless) are negligible but, it's my responsibility to make you aware of it_**
```
Don't need parenthesis,
a warning is not secondary stuff, it's an important part

> The guide would be inclined more towards Xiaomi devices as I own one and have worked with it. But, all other devices follow the same process, so go ahead and give it a read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guide would be inclined more towards Xiaomi devices as I own one and have worked with it. But, all other devices follow a similar process, so go ahead and give it a read.
```

* To start off with, you should have an unlocked bootloader.

    **_For Xiaomi devices refer to the following link : [Click-Here](https://en.miui.com/unlock/)_**

    Follow the process and you'll surely have an unlocked bootloader in no time.
*(Although it might take some time for Xiaomi to process your request but thereafter, it just takes a couple of minutes)*

* **_Download ADB(Android Debug Bridge) and Fastboot files from this link: [Click-Here](http://rootjunkysdl.com/files/?dir=Adb%20Fastboot%20Files)_**

>     A .zip file will be downloaded. Extract these files to a folder. (If you're using Windows all the drivers will be installed automatically)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A `.zip` file will be downloaded. Extract these files to a folder. (If you're using Windows all the drivers will be installed automatically)
```

* Now open up the command prompt on Windows with **_adminitrator priviliges_**.

>     _(To do this press the Windows key on your keyboard and search 'cmd' ,right click when command prompt comes up and chose 'Run as Administrator')_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _(To do that, press the `Windows key` on your keyboard and search 'cmd', right click when command prompt comes up and chose 'Run as Administrator')_
```

> > `cd..` is used to go down one directory

Reviewer 2: > `cd..` is used to go down one directory

`cd ..` is the right syntax

> Enable Developer Options on your phone and enable USB-Debugging. To know more [click-here](https://www.google.com/search?rlz=1C1CHBD_enIN850IN850&ei=5L_7XI0insTPuw-E0JiIAQ&q=how+to+enable+developer+option+in+android&oq=how+to+enable+developer+option+in+android&gs_l=psy-ab.3..35i39j0j0i20i263j0l4j0i30l3.2954.3254..4277...0.0..0.140.265.0j2......0....1..gws-wiz.......0i71j35i304i39j0i13j0i13i30.0E6WUqzOMPo)

Reviewer 2: Can you zero in on a particular website for this information, having a Google link to point back for information is really unstable and could possibly break anytime?

Author: Sure, on it. 😄

> > `cd..` is used to go down one directory

Reviewer: Can't comment on the line above, but 
`is used to go to the directory with the same name`  or something
will be better imo
going up the directory is inaccurate, the file system not linear

Finally, enter fastboot mode on your phone. How-to methods have been listed below(Use any one of the following):

1. Reboot to Bootloader ->(Hold Power + Volume down)    {*_For Xiaomi Devices_*}

> 2. Connect your phone to the PC after enabling the ADB debugging mode in the developer settings

Reviewer: > ADB debugging mode in the developer settings

Have you mentioned how to do that?

Author: No I haven't. Please suggest a commit

Reviewer: well, I don't know how to do that, 
you tell me

Reviewer: also, a suggestion won't suffice imo
you need to make a point 3 for that

> > type `adb devices` if your device shows up then,

Reviewer: type!?
```suggestion
> Use `adb devices` when your device shows up 
```
maybe add troubleshooting steps if it doesn't show up

Reviewer: Also, where do you type?
in the phone? is there a command line?
in the pc? in cmd?
better to mention that

> > type `adb reboot-bootloader`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> then use `adb reboot-bootloader`
```

----

Now to check that your device has entered the fastboot mode and is connected to the system _(connect your phone to the system if you followed method 1 mentioned above)_

> > type-in `fastboot devices` if your device shows up then,

Reviewer: similar

> > type-in `fastboot boot <nameOfTheRecoveryFile.img>`

Reviewer: and here, 
it is a technical blog,
`type` is not appropriate, this is not a kid's tutorial

Now the TWRP recovery opens up. _(You might have to wait a few seconds)_

Transfer the ROM & Gapps file to the phone storage and click on install in TWRP recovery.

> 

Reviewer: Install the ROM? 
just like that?
maybe a little explanation

**_Congratulations! Now you have a phone with a CUSTOM ROM of your own choice with no bloatwares._**

______

*If during the process you encoutered any issues, do look up your issues on XDA or else Google your issues, you'll surely find a solution.*

> *If you found this article helpful, do let me know by tweeting to me on my __twitter-handle @RohanVTK__.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*If you found this article helpful, feel free to reach me on twitter  __@RohanVTK__.*
```

Reviewer: More professional

**_Congratulations! Now you have a phone with a CUSTOM ROM of your own choice with no bloatwares._**

______

*If during the process you encoutered any issues, do look up your issues on XDA or else Google your issues, you'll surely find a solution.*

> *If you found this article helpful, do let me know by tweeting to me on my __twitter-handle @RohanVTK__.*

Reviewer 2: `[RohanVTK](https://twitter.com/RohanVTK)`

Keeping some of that a11y in mind.
